nutrients can also be brought up so less
predictably by rough weather
particularly near the polls huge storms
stir the depths and in which the surface
waters and here in the South Atlantic
the seas are the roughest on the planet
and many rich she is they are too for
here the cold offerings current from the
South meets the warm Brazil current from
the north and that their junction that
is food in abundance
these black-browed albatross are duck
diving for krill that has been driven up
to the surface
like all Albatross black brows are
Wanderers across the face of the open
ocean
[Music]
you
a feeding assembly on this scale is a
rare sight most of the times the birds
of the open sea are widely dispersed but
these feeding grounds are close to an
albatross breeding colony and a very
special
[Music]
this is steeplechasing a remote island
and the power west of the Falklands it
has the largest albatross colony in the
world
there are almost half a million
albatross here an astonishing
demonstration of how fertile the ocean
can be and how much food it can give
evening to creatures that do not
actually live in it
[Music]
new clearance by themselves are not
enough to generate these vast assemblies
the heat and light that the Sun brings
every day is also essential for the
growth of the microscopic floating
plants the phytoplankton and it's the
phytoplankton that is the basis of all
life in the ocean
[Music]